---
title: csula_drug_free
date:  July 01, 2020
tags:
...

# Drug Free School Notification 

## POLICY ON ALCOHOL AND ILLEGAL DRUGS  

In accordance with the Drug-Free Workplace Act of 1990 and Section 120a of the Higher Education Act, Cal State LA provides the following notification to all its students, faculty members, staff members and administrators:  

## STANDARDS OF CONDUCT  

University standards prohibit the unlawful possession, manufacture, cultivation, use, or distribution of illegal drugs (as those terms are defined by State and Federal laws) on campus property. The University also prohibits the illegal possession, distribution and consumption of alcoholic beverages.  

## ILLEGAL DRUGS  

Federal and State laws on drug abuse provide for stringent penalties for illegal possession, manufacture, cultivation, sale, transportation, use of/administration of any narcotic drug; more stringent penalties for those convicted of previous narcotics offenses than for first offenders; and extremely stringent penalties for those who in any way involve minors in the use of narcotics. A person is subject to prosecution if he or she illegally uses or is under the influence of narcotics, or knowingly visits a place where illegal narcotic use is occurring.   Marijuana and other illegal organic substances are covered by similar laws, and there is an additional violation against cultivation or processing of these drugs in this state. The barbiturates (e.g. yellow jackets, red devils) and amphetamines (e.g. bennies, dexies, etc.) - called restricted dangerous drugs in the California Narcotic Act—are similarly covered; penalties for those convicted of illegal possession, manufacture, cultivation, sale, transportation, use or administration of these drugs are severe. In 1966, LSD and related hallucinogenic drugs were added to the list of restricted dangerous drugs, and their use for other than authorized research was prohibited by California law.  

## ALCOHOL

The University’s policy with respect to alcohol follows the laws of the State of California and the City of Los Angeles. All persons, regardless of age, or status are governed by these laws and regulations. State and city laws, prohibit (1) the purchase or sale to, possession of, or consumption of alcoholic beverages by anyone under 21; (2) the serving of alcohol to an already intoxicated person; and (3) the manufacture, use of provision of a false state identification card, driver’s license, or certificate of birth or baptism. If convicted for violating these laws, punishment—up to and including jail sentence—may result.  

## HEALTH RISK

The serious health risks of various illegal drugs and alcohol are well-documented. Use of illegal drugs or excessive use of alcohol can damage the following:  Physiological processes including functioning of the brain, digestive tract, liver, heart, and lungs. Psychological and mental processes including memory, judgment, personality, reproduction capability and fetal development (and may induce psychotic episodes).   Many thousands of deaths each year are either directly or indirectly attributed to substance abuse through accidents, illnesses, and violence. Brochures describing the specific health effects of various illegal drugs and of alcohol are available in the Student Health Center (Health Center) and in Residence Life.  

## COUNSELING AND MEDICAL ASSISTANCE  

The University’s interest in the educational welfare of its students and employees is demonstrated through primary concern for remedial measures. The University makes available the full counseling and medical resources to assist students and staff in constructively confronting problems leading to involvement with drugs or alcohol.  

Every student concerned about problems resulting from the use of illegal drugs or alcohol is encouraged to seek help from the Health Center at 323-343-3300. Every employee concerned about problems resulting from the use of illegal drugs or alcohol is encouraged to seek help from LifeMatters, Cal State LA’s employee assistance program, at 1-800-367-7474. The Health Center will treat such voluntary calls for students confidentially and not subject them to disciplinary action. The Health Center also maintains a complete listing of referral resources in the community that can provide students with specific assistance once an assessment has been made by a physician or counselor.  

## DISCIPLINARY SANCTIONS 

Illegal Drugs: State law (Section 41301, of Title 5, California Code of regulations) allows the University to take disciplinary action, up to and including suspension or expulsion, against any student or staff who sells or knowingly possesses any illegal drug while on campus property. University action may be taken whether or not independent action is taken by civil authorities. Conviction in a criminal court does not necessarily preclude University disciplinary action up to and including suspension or expulsion.  

Alcohol: University Administrative Procedure 19, Use of Alcoholic Beverages on Campus, explains the restrictions beyond City and State laws that govern the possession and use of alcohol on campus. Alcoholic beverages may only be sold at approved catered events. Also, when a recognized student club sponsors an on campus event, attendance is limited to members of that club and their guests. Organizations violating this policy may be subject to administrative action ranging from probation to removal of official recognition. Individuals who violate University Administrative Procedure 19 are subject to disciplinary action up to and including suspension or expulsion.

The use of alcoholic beverages must be in compliance with California State law and is strictly limited to persons 21 years of age or older. 

